docs: new Archive major upgrade section (#807)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/hard-fork-upgrade/prerequisites-and-planning.mdx

---
title: Archive migration prerequisites
sidebar_label: Archive migration prerequisites
hide_title: true

> description: Mina protocol havily relies on its archive node. It is crucial to properly migrate archives from Mainnet to Berkeley.

Reviewer: typo - heavily - word 3

keywords:
  - hard fork
  - upgrade
  - archive migration
  - planning 
  - prerequisites
  - mina archive node
  - archive node
---

# Migrating Mainnet Database to Berkeley

Before you start planning the migration of your Mainnet database into the Berkeley version of the Mina network, read this document in entirety.

## Overview

> Mainnet database requires to be migrated in two steps. Each step uses an application that is shipped by Mina Foundation and o1Labs teams:

Reviewer: Mainnet database is migrated in two steps. ???

Reviewer 2: tbh, I might have introduced this error
@dkijania  can you make sure my suggestions to change to archive node database are valid? thankies

Author: @halsaphi, Yes. Please refer to RFC for data migration: https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina/blob/develop/rfcs/0056-hard-fork-data-migration.md#detailed-design 

In short:

Basically, the berkeley_migration tool does the migration from old db to the new one. But there're some tables can not be populated just by querying the mainnet db. That's why we need a second app to replay all the blocks from the genesis.

> Mainnet database requires to be migrated in two steps. Each step uses an application that is shipped by Mina Foundation and o1Labs teams:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you start planning the migration of your archive node database into the Berkeley version of the Mina network, read this document in entirety.

## Overview

The archive node database requires to be migrated in two steps. Each step uses an application that is shipped by Mina Foundation and o1Labs teams:
```

Reviewer 2: @dkijania  can you verify for me that I didn't get this wrong? thankies

Author: @barriebyron, yes. there are ok :)

Author: @barriebyron, yes. there are ok :)

> - **berkeley-migration**

Reviewer: Step 1? Use numbered list rather than bold?

  The berkeley-migration application migrates as much data as possible from the Mainnet database and downloads precomputed blocks to get the window density data. 
  
  This application runs against the Mainnet and the new database.

> - **replayer in migration mode**

Reviewer: Step 2? Use numbered list rather than bold?

>   The replayer application is an existing appliction, but enhanced with a new mode: migration mode. Replayer in migration mode analyze The transactions in the partially migrated database and populates the `accounts_accessed` and `accounts_created` tables. This application also performs the checks performed by the standard replayer, except that ledger hashes are not checked because the hard fork ledger has greater depth, which results in different hashes. This application runs only against the new database.

Reviewer: typo - application - word 7

Reviewer 2: hey @halsaphi  you are a great reviewer! Do you know about GitHub suggestions? see https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#reviewing-technical-content-prs

### Incrementality

> The applications are able to work incrementally so that part of the Mainnet database can be migrated and, as new blocks are added to the Mainnet, the new data in the database can be migrated.

Reviewer: Check with Barrie but should application names be in back ticks throughout i.e. `name` so they are highlighted?

> The applications are able to work incrementally so that part of the Mainnet database can be migrated and, as new blocks are added to the Mainnet, the new data in the database can be migrated.

Reviewer 2: yes, good catch, use backticks for code literals and filenames 

backticks are appropriate only when using the literal filename of the app, if we are mentioning in general, backticks are not required
